want to bring Russell s in now he's
alzer's senior correspondent and you've
covered the Middle East
extensively give us a sense where we're
at in terms of this conflict compared to
all the other conflicts that we've seen
just how much has this
escalated well first this is quite
different did this divers from the
previous U Israeli attack on Gaza in
terms of its scale so now what we seeing
we're simply talking about the transfer
of the population over 2 million people
this is that this is something that has
repeatedly been uh been said and
publicly announced by many of the
Israeli officials that they want Egypt
to open up Rafa border crossing not only
for the humanitarian Aid to arrive
indeed actually for more than 1 million
Palestinians to pass through that
Crossing border crossing and to siai so
simply they talking about the the the
the the population transfer this is
quite a new element in this sense and
also in terms of the scale of the
violation is definitely much much bigger
than the previous ones that we have seen
in 2021 in 2018 14 and and and before so
but here um what we can see is the the
the the the the Israeli operation is now
not only trying to deter Hamas but
rather to make Hamas to to make um the
the the Gaza as an inhabitable city a
city that people cannot leave anymore so
it's indirectly also forcing people out
of Gaza in that sense because we have
seen tens of towers uh the the the the
health facilities including Al Al
Baptist hospital that just has been hit
and we're hearing that at least more
than 500 people have been killed the
roads are now collapsed the whole
infrastructure is is simply being
leveled so a city that is definitely not
not going to be suitable to live in so
in the directly they're trying to now
the the the scale of the destruction is
just trying to make Gaza turn Gaza into
a city that is simply inhabitable for
the people so in that sense it's not
only a punishment as well and what we
can see through the way that Israel is
conducting its attacks it seems that
they want a Gaza without Palestinians
and also inflicting the fear the
constant fear and Terror here that
actually Gaza is not a safe place not
for Hamas but for all the civilians that
eventually they can see how a Gaza
without Palestinians and definitely that
is putting a huge pressure in the
regional actors on the regional actors
particularly Egypt in that sense okay
Russell I want you to stay with me
because joining us on the phone now is
is senior Hamas leader Asama Hamden
hello there Asama you have Emily anguin
and rill s here on the desk with you
first of all I'll ask you a question
what's your reaction to the strike on
the hospital this
evening well it's clear that the
Israelis are committing a crime a crime
War when you talk about the hospital we
are talking about more than 500
Palestinians were killed they are all
civilians we are talking about most the
children and women who believes that the
hospital is a a safe shelter for them
while Israel is bombing Gaza uh I I I
believe that this strike will not take
place unless there was unfortunately a
green light from the United States
everyone understands that Lincoln had
spent yesterday night with the cabinet
for five uh more than 5 hours and
tomorrow everyone is expecting President
Biden to visit the region and to have a
meeting in in in am with Arab leaders uh
King
Abdullah president CCE and mahmmed Abbas
it's clear that they are preparing the
land for something to tell everyone that
all the needed uh all the needed steps
have been done to evacuate Gaza which is
which will not take place I believe the
Palestinians themselves will not leave
uh and the Arab countries will not
accept that uh uh I have to say we are
watching we are seeing a war crime not
from the Israelis but also committed by
the Americans they are rizing Israel
they are sending weap for is in ama so
here there have been some of the
allegations particularly reported by the
Israeli media that actually it was a
Hamas rocket that uh let just uh hit the
hospital well uh let's let's say that
that two points the Israelis have talked
about killing the civilians and now they
are killing the civilians by themselves
showing the whole world that they were
lying and at Point everyone knows and
watches what hamash Rockets are doing in
the isra in in in the cities of bistan
andon
and and T Aviv there is no destruction
like this happening there so if someone
wants to claim that it's a
he had to show us where that happened
other other places the third
point and now we are investigating to
bring out the pieces of the Rus which
was uh which targeted the hospitals we
know the American weapons we know the
pieces of the American weapons and
everyone knows that in 2014 is attacked
the schools and the centers of the Ona
they claimed at that time that Hamas was
using those places as as the places to
to to to launch rockets against Israel
the honor investigated that the UN
investigated that and they've said
clearly Israel was lying Usama so um
there have been some reports that Hamas
is ready to release the the the captives
if Israel stops its attacks can you
confirm
that well abua spokeman of ala brigades
have said that clearly we could
considered the people who were taken not
from the military of Hamas from others
if they were not soldiers they are even
they they are guests and we will release
them when the war is over because we
can't guarantee their safety he said
that in public it's not a secret and I
think some some uh media are using that
because they they are they expressing
that by their their own way nothing new
in the issue we believe that uh uh
no one can turn the attention from the
crime of the Israelis by talking about
other issues the main issue now is the
the the Holocaust which is taking which
is taking place in GZA we are talking
about uh before that Massacre we were
talking about 3,000 Palestinians who
were killed 1,000 Palestinians who who
under the destroyed houses now you you
are talking about more than ,000
Palestinians are being added in one
strike that shows the the is
humanitarian catastrophe is is just now
unfolding in Gaza no question about that
but what's your condition of releasing
the Israeli
captives well it's clear that the
Israeli War
prisoners uh will be released in a
prisoners exchange if our prisoners were
released from the Israeli jail that
that's clear and everyone knows that
from day number one so uh Usama um um
president Mahmud Abbas has just cut his
travel to Jordan he was supposed to meet
uh American President Joe Biden there
but now he cut his his his trip there
and he's coming back to ramala as the
streets are now um protesting so do you
think that there's a chance of a kind of
reconciliation between Hamas and PLO or
could these open up an opportunity for
somehow for two parties to communicate
again
well it's clear that we have started
that in in Cairo uh before the last
attack against Hamas and we are willing
to have a Reconciliation between Hamas
and fat and I believe what is going on
now in the Israeli attack and in the
politics uh will bring the Palestinians
together back because blink ideas
were clear there will be no Palestinian
state in West Bank if you want the
Palestinian State you can have it other
places is West Bank is for the Israelis
those are the ideas which was told by
blinkin to mahm Abbas and I think Biden
will say nothing more than
this coming back to ramal under those
circumstances is a is a step in the
right direction and I hope that we can
build on that and we will do our best to
build on that to unite the Palestinian
against the Israeli attacks against the
Israelis Israeli government who is
working hard to get rid of the
Palestinians they are not talking about
transferring the Palestinians just only
from Gaza they have talked clearly SM
Rich B fear they've talked clearly about
deporting the Palestinians from West
Bank and they were talking about
deporting them to build more
C Usama just coming back to the the the
the issue of the captives there at least
are you ready to to to to release the
non military civilians that are now
captive in in in in Gaza do you have any
condition for
that well Abu have said clearly the
spokeman of Bri sorry of Alan brigades
that we consider them as guests where we
will release them as soon as the wars
ends to guarantee their safety without
conditions
okay thank you we're going to leave it
there Russell s thank you very much that
was Asama Hamden the senior Hamas leader
Asama Hamden
there okay um Russell just while we're
waiting to cross to Washington obviously
plenty of developments this evening that
we need to break down and something
quite significant that we've just heard
from the heras leader indeed saying that
he or they are prepared to release the
civili cilian yeah captives was that
your understanding captiv
unconditionally but not he's not talking
about the the those who are the solders
or military personnel so what if
anything do you think that would Pro
will what if anything impact wise will
that have on the current situation look
at on October 7th so simply Israel had
the moral High Ground because it was
attacked by Hamas but day by day Israel
is losing that ground and now people
more and more coming forward and uh
raising their voices uh about what uh
Israel is doing in in in Gaza and so
Israelis have been very much building up
on the civilians that are now captive uh
in Gaza and if Hamas releases that
probably that is also going to give
another momentum to to to to to to to
the people who are not protesting
against Israel so in that sense probably
this moral ground is shifting from one
side to another and if that happens so
Hamas probably will have the opportunity
of saying that this is happening just
between the Armed Forces not that that
they're not targeting the is Israeli
civilians this is an argument that
Israel have been has been building up on
so in that sense simply just
militarizing the issue and is losing the
moral High Ground there okay wrestle s
we'll cross back to you for your further
analysis throughout the evening